hello welcome to our first oriole today
will be sneaking out the basics of
clarinet playing so first of all we have
our posture our posture is extremely
important that helps us have a good soon
I got a nice supported sound so we have
to sit at the edge of our chair we got
to keep our spine nice and tall and
straight shutters ed back and relaxed
and our feet you'd be flat on the floor
cut a little bit underneath our knees
the next thing to do metab good
breathing and good air stream ok we need
to inhale deeply through the corners of
our mouth and when we have a Matthews in
our mouth we gotta keep our shutter
study on our ways to expand kind like a
balloon kind of mm-hmm fluke Lamonica
sound like this license point play
placing the essential tones important
your embouchure is your mask position on
the math piece of the instrument
mouthpiece a good amateur takes a long
time to develop and many people don't
even develop it until years into their
playing career so we all read placement
already placed we got at first we gotta
moisten before me put it on there so i
did but i'll show you getting you i put
your mouth come out give the kind of the
water your saliva okay the ligature
screw needs to be to the right I'm
identity like when band teacher said
right is right and left is wrong we got
it put the flat side of the raid against
the back piece like so make sure it's
kind of lined up with the edge and you
gotta tighten the ligature screws not
too tight so you can still vibrate but
not too loose because in the week of
fall off
the ambition yeah be sure it's important
you got first of all your lips you have
to be kind of moist you gotta look roll
the lower lip over your bottom teeth you
got to firm the corners of your math
like a slightly puppet smile I guess
you're saying e and you're saying oh do
the same time you like that you guys
stretch your chip downward you gotta
okay then you got a place the mouthpiece
on your lower lip so that the reed kind
of extends about half an inch to your
route depends on to the player is some
players have it like only about four of
an inch others go really far down but
happens is where most of the people who
play the upper teeth need to be on top
of the mouthpiece now don't squeeze too
tight so the reeds not to be a being
able to vibrate like so make sure it's
kind of this side Nickel vibrate close
your mouth around the mouthpiece and
keep the corners of your mouth firm in
the chin pointing downward for the
duration of how long you're playing
thank you for watching this is my first
tutorial hope it was good and yeah it's
fine i raided by